Punchy
------

NASTY PUNCH has locked JUDY away in the Punch & Judy booth. You must rescue
her by guiding brave BOBBY the policeman across the stage.

To achieve success you must, amongst other challenges, make BOBBY leap the
obstacles, land on a flying carpet and ROCK THE BABY.

All the well known characters from the traditional Punch & Judy show make
an appearance in this unique game.

The graphics and speech combine to produce one of the best programs available
for the 48K Spectrum.


Playing Instructions:

Punch has locked Judy away in the Punch & Judy booth and Judy has called
upon the brave Bobby to rescue her. In true Punch & Judy tradition you the
audience can help by guiding Bobby over the stage, telling him when to jump
the many obstacles which are in his way. Jump over the gaps in the stage
and leap over Punch himself, whilst dodging the rotten tomatoes and the
custard pies which are thrown at Bobby from stage left and stage right. With
perfect timing land Bobby onto the flying carpet to cheat the alligators and
dealth. Then at the end of each screen "Rock the Baby", before moving on.

Every once in a while Judy will send a sausage, which Bobby can catch. When
3 have been caught, pressing key 8 will magically transport Bobby to the
next screen unharmed. This magic should be saved for really tough sections.

Bobby's progress is shown on the top scroll scanner which depicts the stage
and booth. Each screen has a time penalty which is shown top right - this
varies with the level selected. As each screen is completed a bonus helmet
is awarded in the top left scroll. For every five helmets collected, a
bonus is added. However, each time Bobby fails, he loses all bonus helmets
and sausages collected at that stage. When Bobby is regenerated he starts
again from the beginning of the stage in which he failed.

At the commencement of the game Bobby can survive 3 failures. This rises by
one when a score of 60,000 points is achieved. There are 16 screens to pass
through before reaching the booth and the rescue of JUDY.

Should you succeed then you may find that Punch once again abjucts poor
Judy and so you and brave Bobby are destined to fight for eternity - or until
you switch off the computer!

Keyboard Controls:

Key 6 = Left
Key 7 = Right
Key 0 = Jump
Key 8 = Use sausages
Key H = Hold game (0 to continue)

To start the game press the Jump key 0.
Joysticks other than the Kemston may be compatible with the above keys.

Options:
The game contains several skill options which are displayed on screen at the
start. Pressing 1-5 will select the option required. 1 is the easiest and 5
is the hardest.

High Score Table:
If you achieve a score which is higher than those already entered in the
high score table then in true arcade tradition you will be able to enter
your name in the hall of fame. To do this use the left and right controls
to select the letter of the alphabet you require, pressing the jump key
to enter each one on the screen.

(C) MR MICRO LTD.

(Transcribed by Robin Stuart)
