THUNDERCATS
Elite

During a raid by the wicked MOLEMEN, agents of the evil MUMM-RA entered the
CATS-LAIR, kidnapped several members of the Thundercats team and stole the
Eye of Thundera, the magical jewel which holds the mystical power of the
sword of omens.  LION-O was out on a mission when the raid took place but
vows that, as the eye was given into his safe-keeping, he must go to Castle
Plundar, rescue his team-mates and retrieve the Eye. Can LION-O battle his
way past MUMM-RA's henchmen in the forests and underground caverns, and
return the power of the sword of omens and glory to the Thundercats name?

Loading Instructions
--------------------

Spectrum +2/+3
Use Loader

Spectrum (48K Cassette)
LOAD ""

Amstrad/Schneider (Cassette)
RUN ""

Amstrad/Schneider (Disk)
RUN "ELITE"

Commodore 64 (Cassette)
SHIFT + RUN/STOP

Commodore 64 (Disk)
LOAD "THUNDER",8,1

Playing Instructions
--------------------

Spectrum
Joystick or redefinable keyboard.

Amstrad
Joystick or keyboard.

Commodore 64
Joystick only (Port 2).

Extra weapons, bonuses and lives can be collected by hitting mushrooms and
tress with your current weapon. A bonus is awarded if the level is 
completed within the time limit. You also get a "kill" bonus according to
the number of enemies destroyed. On the special mission levels where you 
have to rescue a team-mate be careful as you only get one chance. If you 
get into a tight spot try jumping over the enemy and killing him from 
behind. Good luck!


(c) Elite Systems Limited - 1987

All rights reserved worldwide. Unauthorised copying, lending, broadcasting
or resale without the express written permission from Elite Systems is
strictly prohibited.

Guarantee

This software tape has been carefully developed and manufactured to the 
highest quality standards. Please read carefully the instructions for 
loading which are included. If for any reason you have difficulty in
running the program, and believe that the tape is defective, please return
it directly to the following address:

Consumer Services Department,
Elite Systems Limited,
Eastern Avenue,
Lichfield,
England
WS13 6RX

Our QUALITY CONTROL DEPARTMENT will test the product, and supply an 
immediate replacement, at no charge. Please note that this not affect your
statutory rights.


(c) Telepicture Corp., Leisure Concepts, Inc. Ted Wolf. All rights reserved.
