THE SPECTRUM GAME DATABASE

WIZBALL

PUBLISHER
Ocean

AUTHOR
Sensible Software

YEAR
1987

CATEGORY
Arcade

DESCRIPTION
Wizball is a side-view arcade game.

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Kempston.  The keys are redefinable.

INSTRUCTIONS
For many years, Wiz and his magical cat lived happily in brightly
coloured Wizworld. All was not well however as a malevolent force
had discovered the vista and intended to stamp out brilliance
once and for all. The evil Zark and his horrible sprites have
moved in to eliminate the spectrum and render all landscpes drab
and grey. So jump in your transporter and with the help of your
faithful servant Catelite, restore Wizworld to its former glory.

The landscapes in Wizworld are comprised of three colours each.
Your task is to restore the original colours by shooting the Red,
Green and Blue colour bubbles and then using Cat to collect the
droplets of colour as they fall to the ground. Droplets collected
will be stored in the cauldron displayed at the bottom of the
screen, until such time as you have enough of each colour to make
the target colour displayed in the cauldron on the far bottom
right of the screen.

In the three levels which have aliens on: one has red, one has
green and one has blue. It is therefore necessary to move between
the three levels using the tunnels to collect all three colours.
To complete a level, you must colour in the whole landscape.
After each colour is collected there is a bonus stage. After
this, Wiz enters Wiz-Lab and is given a Wiz-Perk by his guardian
angel. You may select one weapon or control, which will be
magically endowed up on all subsequent Wizballs from birth, or
opt for the bonus of 1000 points x Wiz-Level number.

When certain aliens are killed they will deposit a green pearl
which will remain stationary on the screen. If Wizball passes
over this pearl and picks it up the first icon on the top of the
screen will glow; this indicates that Wiz has the option to
select a feature representated on the icon. If you want to select
another feature collect more pearls until the icon you want is
glowing. Several icons have two possible functions. The icons
are, from left to right:


 1) Thrust     - Gives Wiz more control over the Wizball and
                 allows him to move it left or right.
    Antigrav   - Gives Wiz total control over the Wizball and
                 stops the bouncing.
 2) Beam       - Gives Wiz supa-beam weapon.
    Double     - Gives Wiz and cat automatic two-directional
                 firepower.
 3) Catellite  - Gives Wiz a cat fresh from training college.
 4) Blazers    - Gives Wiz and Cat super rapid fire blazers.
 5) Wiz Spray  - Gives Wiz mega spray protection.
    Cat Spray  - Does the same for Cat (but Wiz and Cat cannot
                 have spray at the same time).
 6) Smart Bomb - Kills every sprite in sight.
 7) Shields    - Gives Wiz and Cat shields for a limited period
                 only.

SCORES RECEIVED
Crash: "An entertaining and playable game". 92% (CRASH #45,
October 1987)

SEQUELS/PREQUELS
A sequel was released, but not on the Spectrum.  It was called
WizKid, and is pretty good.
